# password-based-lock-bike-ignition-system-using-8051
This keypad system is a project to prevent motorcycle thefts these days. So with our project or initiative, this will reduce the risk of thefts that happen in india. We got this idea based on the collected problem statement which is nowadays motorcycle are easily being stolen by the thieves. The objective of this project is to upgrade the safety system, to ease the ignition of the bike and reduce the loss of motorcycles in the present time. Basically, we are making a new way to start a bike that is originally used starter. By using our project, they can ignite their motorcycle just by using their password . In our preliminary study, this project requires us to study about electronic devices and circuits. Thus, we have to make research to make a circuit so the keypad will work well. In conclusion, we hope our project could decrease the rate of stolen motorcycle and give a new interesting way of starting your motorcycle .
Passwoed  lock bike ignition system is our project for final year project. This project is inspired from the smartphone  password  that is widely used in any smartphones in this world. We cannot unlock our phone if the password entered is wrong and this way is safer than using the lockless smartphone . Nobody can use your phone unless you open it with your own password. Because of this, we would like to apply this application for motorcycle due to the increased number of stolen motorcycle cases lately. This case is getting worst and it does not only happen to the moped bike, this case only happens at the superbike. But for the superbike, it is not so famous because stealing a superbike is not that easy like stealing a moped bike.
